Hi, everyone.
My name is Maxine.
I am the co-founder and CTO of Forecast
Bio.
And thank you for the opportunity to speak here.
It's really exciting for me to be a part of this
overall community over the last little bit more than a year.
And I'm really excited about the possibilities that AtProto
has for providing us agency over our social experience, over the
way that we are able to shape our own science, our
own investigation, and our own collective sensemaking, as I
'm sure was talked about a lot at the AtScience
meeting before the main meeting for this.
So I'm going to talk about what we're building at
Forecast to facilitate this vision of a future of AI built
on AtProto using the tools that are available built into
the infrastructure for the protocol to be able to facilitate collective sharing
and understanding of data sets, large data sets, and also
of model weights.
So first, an introduction to Forecast, because it's
probably a little bit out of left field to have a .
bio domain show up at this setting, and not in
the context of biographic, but actually biology.
So Forecast is a drug discovery and development company, actually
.
And so our vision is really focused around providing people with cognitive
agency and recognizing that historically we've done a very bad job
of developing central nervous system therapeutics in the pharmaceutical space.
So what we want to do is to say, look,
there is this vast space of where your mind could be at
any given moment, and a vast way in which your mind
can evolve in its instantaneous state across this space of all the
different things that a mind can be.
So you're somewhere in this vast sea of all the potential
mental states that are possible.
And what we want to do is to be able to produce
therapeutic interventions.
We're starting with drugs, with small molecule drugs, but
we'd really like to see this expand into all types of
different interventions that allow you to say, okay, no matter
which spot that you're at in this space, I want
to be able to move to any other spot in this space
to give you control of the way that your mind operates over
time.
And so we think that this overall vision provides a really different
way of thinking about how drugs are developed in neurology and
psychiatry, where historically we've had a really difficult time
bringing new tools to market.
And so we are using artificial intelligence models, both on the
language side, on the image side, on the multimod
al side, all of these different techniques that have really been
radically transformative in every field of science and computation over the last
few years, to be able to build out this map of
every cognitive state that a person can be in over time,
and then to understand the biology by growing many brains in the
lab and then watching the videos of their brain activity over time
to be able to map out how pharmaceutical interventions impact these things
.
So the difficulty that we run into with this is that right
now in the ecosystem for AI, these models are really largely
produced from a small subset of orgs, as I'm
sure a lot of people in the audience are familiar with from
this.
And this provides really a number of practical and, I think
, for the field, for science as a whole, existential
problems that come from, like, what are the long-
term impacts of having, like, the incentive structures that are
present for individual large orgs producing these models, the way
that even just having any concentration of only a small, sp
arse subset of models makes people anchor their understanding.
So even, you know, like, if you have a
large number of individual startups that are sort of, like,
building things based off of these, like, say, in
the biotech space, if you have image models that
show you biological imaging, that they're all based off of
the same sort of, like, underlying base.
And, like, the knowledge that you're seeing, actually
, when you're doing scientific investigation, is really, really
concentrated around whatever was the semantics that was put into the
specific training regime of that, right?
So there's this outsized power that comes in being able
to, like, be the one that controls that.
And there's also, like, an outsized effect of
, like, sort of quashing the variability in the entire
ecosystem of the way investigation works.
And this is something that, actually, a lot of people
, like, Anthropic has even published on the overall effect
of this for language models and the way that we interact with
text and the language that we produce.
So this really, this concentration of, like, the training
, the infrastructure into only a handful of players is really,
really deleterious for the field overall long-term.
But AppRoto is this incredible ecosystem that provides this infrastructure
for solving, really, this exact problem of being able to
have, like, data that is distributed, that people have
ownership, real, genuine ownership.
It's not locked into, like, a particular monolithic
, like, space that is, like, schematized
in order to be, like, mutually understandable and exchangeable
, which is something that, for scientific data, is something
that's incredibly important.
Like, an image is not the same as any other image
.
Like, the actual experimental detail really matter.
And so being able to, like, bookkeep on that
is incredibly important.
Identity is incredibly important in this context.
Like, being able to understand where data is coming from in
such a way that, like, doesn't lead to the
same concentrating effects, but allows people to, like, like
, contribute, but in a way that is, like,
trust is built out.
Like, it's currently done in the Blue Sky ecosystem with
, like, verifications, and the verification graph kind of
architecture that's there.
And then, like, building out in a way that's
composable, that actually has, like, open protocols that
allow applications to interchange.
And so, like, this has already been really started to
flourish amazingly on the side for social, but for scientific data
, I think that people were talking about on sort of,
like, the knowledge side at the at science meeting, like
, is really starting to blossom.
And I think that there is an incredible opportunity even outside of
, like, the social and sort of, like, direct
text knowledge side to actually how we share interoperable,
just full-on data sets.
So, what we're building is based off of this model
, that, like, positive sum is really important for providing
a meaningful way for small orgs like our startup, like
other biotech startups, to, like, meaningfully
be able to produce AI models that compete with the large labs
.
Like, this happens because of coordination between everybody in the field
, us sharing data, others sharing data, us sharing weights
, others sharing weights that's done in a way that's
, like, interoperable, so that the sum total
of all of our small startups in the ecosystem is something that
's greater than the sum of its parts.
And so, this is, like, what we see is
really, like, a path forward built off of the infrastructure
for AppRoto for, like, a small 10-
person team, say, to be able to, like,
out-compete massive organizations.
And that's because the network, the infrastructure, is the
force multiplier for our efforts in training, like, building robust
AI systems.
And so, what we've built at Forecast over the
last bit is our own paths that really, like, treating
this for data sets.
We found this to be something that's, like, really
important for our own infrastructure, for how we're building our
, like, image models, video models, like, multim
odal models that we're using internally for our own discovery
and development programs.
And so, what we're, like, we decided to
really try and put some work into making that generalizable so
that we can share it with the community and have this larger
buy-in around sharing data.
So, what AppData is really based on is the
fundamental technology called the web data set, which is a way
that, like, individual large data sets can be, like
, sharded up.
It's very simple.
It's just, like, tar files, essentially.
They could, like, put into, like, shards
.
But because of the wrapper that you can sort of do on
top of that, it provides a really good, like,
you can schematize things very easily by having a standardized
way that those files are stored, and you can stream things
really easily and have, like, sidecar manifest files that
let you do, like, querying and other operations really
quickly.
So, we're trying to, like, build out,
essentially, an ecosystem in which there is storage infrastructure for the
actual large data sets itself that's off-protocol.
As, like, a funny thing, I kind of built
, like, a version of it that does work for PD
S blobs.
But, like, so, like, I think I have
, like, a few versions of, like, MN
IST tested as, like, PDS blobs on my
own, like, maxine.
science.
And then we use AppProto PDS records to actually
be, like, the index, the metadata, the schem
as that give, like, the interpretation of what each individual
sample is in a given data set, and then lens transformations
that allow you to actually move back and forth between schemat
izations of individual samples.
So, you can aggregate across data sets that are actually made
with, like, different sample schemas, but that are
interconvertible.
And so, we're, like, still, we have
a version of this that's up on PyPI.
I'm pushing the REST SDK for this right now today
.
Thank you, Claude.
But we're really, really excited to get, like,
community feedback and sort of, like, iterate on the way
that we've designed this.
So, as I was mentioning, like, the design of
this overall is that, like, really is centrally done
through code.
Like, it's, I think, different than a lot
of things that we see in, like, the app proto
ecosystem and that there's really no, like, I mean
, I think over time, it'll be nice to have
, like, a web front end to allow people to browse
data sets and things like that.
But really, this is something that, like, we've
envisioned as being something that you reference and, like, your
own Jupyter Notebooks are doing data science and something
that you have your autonomous, like, agents on cloud code
or whatever, on codex or what have you, actually
be able to just, like, build things that, like
, query out to our, like, app view that's
aggregating all of the data sets that are posted in all
the different fields.
Genomics, like, neural recordings of, you know,
voltage dynamics and neurons, like, imaging data sets for medical
imaging, for biological imaging, all these different things that can
be posted, have entries as, like, PDS records
that give, like, the metadata of the data set and
what schema it's using.
All of that be, like, aggregated and filtered in
real time in order to provide, like, people who are
working on different data, like, fields with, like,
real-time streams of when new data gets posted out.
And then specifically, like, having, like, we're
building out a very similar, like, trust network architecture that
was inspired, really, by the Blue Sky Verification System
to have it so that there can be, like, in
a given field, like, trust labels that are given to
individual data providers that allow people to, like, actually hone
in on that data that's being provided by really, really
reliable sources for particular fields.
And then when individual clients look out to what's present in
the atmosphere as far as the records, like, give the
index on, like, all the data that's present out
in the world, then the client has all the information that
it needs to actually then go out to the storage mechanism and
actually, like, pull the streaming samples for that data.
And we also, the arrow's not depicted here, but
we can, like, proxy that connection through the app view
also.
There's, like, a lot of different ways that we
can plug all of these things together.
But this is the overall vision, is, like, the
client is able to look out into the entire atmosphere and say
, what has science done in, like, mouse brain MRI
or something?
Like, whatever it is.
And, like, any data set that has a lens that
lets you convert it to something that I can interpret as mouse
brain MRI, I see index records from the atmosphere that tell
me where to look for all of those data sets.
And that let me code gen, like, transformations from my
own data science pipeline that let me ingest all of it
streaming from out in the larger, like, web.
So we've built all of this off of, as I
mentioned, sort of, like, not, like, Lex
icon is really specific for the, like, the way that
Atproto is set up, but we wanted to have
our own schema system.
So we have, like, a lightweight way of, like
, doing this across platform.
Right now it's sort of is, like, using JSON
schema as an intermediary, but we want to support other
things for that also.
But essentially, like, when you have a data set that
you're loading out from the world, you want to be
able to interpret as each sample comes in, like, what
do the fields in this actually mean?
And so it was very important for us to actually publish as
records, like, abstractions of individual sample schemas in
the same way that individual lexicons are also published,
like, on protocol so that everybody can have, like,
a consensus understanding of, like, what this data actually means
semantically.
So we just wrapped that really thin on the existing platform infrastructure
for whatever language it's in.
And then we've used, we built out, like,
just a really simple interface for how, like, actual,
like, when you're developing with this, it works that
's based off of the Hugging Face data sets API.
So essentially, like, there's some magic underneath that allows
you to resolve very similar to, like, the way that
Hugging Face, like, labels on individual data sets would
be set up, but just based off of, like,
the proto handle that's associated with where the index entries are
.
And then automatically it just does all the things under the hood
to build out, like, like a PyTorch
data loader that actually does all of the streaming under the
hood that lets you, like, actually build out, like
, batched, like, tensors in real time or
, like, whatever data form that you want to see it
from.
So we're very excited about, like, just making it
as simple as possible to be able to go out and load
an individual data set.
And then also we have similarly, like, interfaces for doing
queries based off of, like, type conversion using our L
ens system.
Like, I want to find all the things of a particular
schema.
I want to find all the things that are convertible to
a particular schema, etc.
So under the hood, like I mentioned, like, the
way that this has been built is, like, foundationally
on web data set, which is very, very simple.
It's just, like, files, like, it's
like message pack in a tar file, essentially.
Like, it's very, very simple.
But it's very powerful in being able to provide, like
, the streaming and, like, well, you can build
a lot on top of it pretty easily with really a little
overhead.
Like, that we use, like, really simple decorators
or macros to be able to make it so that the
developer experience is pretty simple on setting up schema types for whatever
data you're working with in order to be able to publish
it with, like, one function call to your to your
PDS for the index entry and then either, like,
you know, publish to, like, FTP, S
3, compatible storage, like, whatever you're using on
your particular backend for the actual large file storage.
PDS blobs, if you're nuts like me.
Like, the, like, try and make that interoper
able as much as possible.
and then also to support, like, a number of,
like, binary serialization formats to make things really convenient on
that end.
Like, right now we're using, I'm using,
like, NumPy, like, a byte serialization
because it kind of works on the backend, but we're
building that out to be, like, really, really general
izable to, like, support the interop for the overall
community.
And I kind of hinted at this earlier, but I
really wanted to dig into this because I think it's a
larger point that fit, it was really apparent to me at
last year's conference, I think, and I, like
, got ADHD distracted on, like, doing other stuff and
, like, the stuff we're building in forecasts.
But I do think that this is overall, like, a
very important point for the larger community and particularly for, like
, the lexicon.
community efforts of, like, building out standards.
Like, what's really powerful about data that is schemat
ized is not just that you can look at everything that's
in your particular schema, but if you actually book key,
and part of this is, like, for those nerds
in the audience, I'm, like, really deep into
, like, applied category theory, so there's, like
, a lot of abstract nonsense of why this is, like
, hella cool.
But essentially, like, the thing that really matters more than
the schema is the interconversions between schemas.
And so if you can really keep track of, like,
like, update and, like, view operations between two different
types, you actually can do even more than just understanding data
that's provided to you in a given lexicon,
say, for AppRoto.
Like, you can actually query out and build tooling that automatically
is able to ingest, like, things from any le
xicon that has coherent, like, view and update operations
to a specified lexicon that you care about.
So in AppData, we're really building this explicitly
.
Like, we have PDS records in our lexicon
that are, like, about, like, lens code that
actually does interconversions between our AppData schem
as.
And these are also, like, subject to the verification system
so that we can have, like, trusted lenses that are
not, like, doing arbitrary code injection and, like,
all the crazy nonsense that you probably have people do if you
just, like, have them reference arbitrary code that they're
clawed agent pulls or they're open claw pulls or whatever
.
So, but I think that, like, in addition to
the application for AppData, which is really, really
cool, being able to be, like, oh, yeah
, my lab published this schema and it's, like,
totally insane because it's got this weird, like, metadata
about, like, whether the lab technician wore Axe body
spray that day because, like, that influences the mouse behavior
in crazy ways that, like, only our lab cares about
.
Like, you can actually just say, okay, it's
neural recordings, I don't care.
And you can, similarly for the larger AppProto ecosystem
, this is really important because, like, we've seen
a lot of things of, like, what's the right
move?
Is it to, like, have everybody for different applications,
like, make their own lexicon namespace so that
you have, like, app-to-app separation or
do we want to come together and have, like, a
lexicon.
community thing where, like, everything of a specific type
sort of centralizes around an individual lexicon and you
have some other way to specify what apps are putting into it
?
And I think it's, like, a why not both
kind of a situation.
Like, individual apps can actually make their own lexicons
for the types that they're working with, but if there
is a centralized, like, lens lexicon that is
, like, just the abstraction around, like, what it
is to interconvert between two AppProto lexic
ons, then that enables, like, developers building out tooling
that's like, okay, I want to make a blog
app and I want it to have this particular data type for
posts that has this content that's specific to me, but
I also want to be able to reason about leaflet and
I also want to be able to reason about white wind and
I, like, like, if you have the ability to
just define what are the lens transformations to each of those individual
ones, you can automatically pull in and aggregate all of that
data across many different, like, even sometimes kind of diver
gent lexicons, as long as the lenses that,
like, give you the view operations and the update operations to
each one of those are, like, coherent enough for what
you want to do.
So I think we're trying to, like, build our
own demo version of this for the way that app data works
with its own internal schematized sample types, but I
think that this is, like, a larger, like,
community point that could be really, really cool that I want
to spend a little bit of time to hammer home because I
'm, like, a big lens evangelist.
And so all of this put together, we're, like
, deploying, we're in the process of, like,
deploying out our own app view that sort of is, like
, the canonical app view implementation for the app data ecosystem and
for handling all of the, like, like, we're
, we're publishing all of our lexicons on science
.
alt.
dataset as sort of, like, the reverse DNS
NSID.
So that was a cool move four years ago to me to
register alt.
science.
So the, like, the overall vision of this is that
, like, we want to have something that allows, like
, people to have control over filtering feeds of data sets that
they care about but can, like, weakly cohere
enough to be able to, like, facilitate interchange and collective
sense making for, large scientific data sets.
And the next step, once we built that app data that
we have, that we're, that we're prototyping
right now in-house at Forecast is actually to move
from the, like, social data for being able to stream
in across the entire atmosphere different, like, data sets from
all over the world but to also then move that into social
training to actually go to the other side of the Hugging
Face API around model weights.
And so we're very excited about the possibilities there of having
lexicons defining, like, the actual training phy
logeny of model weights.
So you can say, ah, I want this to be
associated with the hyperparameters that it was trained with
, the data sets that it uses input, the weights that
it started with when I was doing this fine-tune
, the code that I actually used for doing that, the
evaluation metrics.
And when lots of people are doing that and publishing the metadata
and then also in a sidecar service, like, the
weights themselves, then we start building a situation where we can
actually, like, autonomously build out, like, collectively
the space of all different training trajectories that we can do
for AI models, right?
it allows this sort of weak cohesion of all of the
different, like, biotech startups, language model startups
, people that are working on small teams, like, it
allows that weak coherence between those to really, like,
amplify how much that we can do the search space that are
sometimes astronomical for these things as a collective and I think really
have, like, a transformative impact on the way that,
like, distributed AI work in smaller independent teams is able to
, like, catch up, compete with, and even,
like, outpace some of what's possible in larger labs
through this.
So, like, I, like, like, the summary
on that is just, like, like, the vision,
I think, that's very important, especially with this,
like, semantic concentration that's present in the AI field with
, like, the power consolidation that is happening instead of the
AI field with this large, with the large labs is there
is, like, a, an alternative thesis of what the
future of AI model training looks like that's not one lab
with a giant cluster, but it's instead, like,
the community with their own independent hardware, with their own independent
resources, and enough coherence because of the infrastructure, because
of the protocol, to be able to actually, like,
build synergistically off of each other's work.
So, this is the next phase of what we're building
after at data at forecasts.
So, stay tuned.
And that gives, like, a full picture of this,
of, like, an ecosystem that's built on, like
, at every level from the data sets, the, like
, way that those data sets are able to interoperate
, the training of the models, the actual publication of the
weights, that, like, builds out a larger ecosystem where
we can trace where things originated from, what code was used
to generate them, and actually share all of those details to
build off of one another.
So, oh no, the AI from my slides made a
goof.
Oh well, that's how it goes sometimes.
Just to wrap up on the final thing, like, well
, as I mentioned at the very beginning, Forecast is
centrally built around our vision of providing people with cognitive agency
.
And for what we are working on, we are focused in
our business around drug development and discovery as a means to provide
that because of our research experience.
I'm a neuroscience by training.
I did my PhD down the street from here at UCS
F in neuroscience and I did also some medical training there about
it and I clear deeply about neurology and psychiatry and
this is our focus.
But I think that that overall thesis has a direct, like
, link with some of the trends that we're seeing in
how AI models, how the overall shape of the AI ecosystem
is really moving us toward, like, a possibility of a
future with a lot of, like, homogenization that
's very unhealthy for individuals' mental health or the health of
our scientific discourse that really benefits enormously from the noise, from
the divergence of opinions that come from people not just seeing the
same semantics that comes through from the model but actually their
own situated individual versions of that that come in a distributed form
from individuals' experiences and the particular things that they bring to
the table.
And so, like, all of this is really shaped fundamentally
from the tools that we have, the infrastructure that we have
for how these systems that we're building are created and how
they interoperate.
And I think that AppProto overall has an incredible possibility
not just on the side of, like, creating a,
like, decentralized approach to our social media data but also a
decentralized approach that in a similar way is incredibly empowering to,
like, groups that are producing artificial intelligence and that I think
this has outsized potential to really transform the future of the
way that that industry looks.
So, I think, like, I believe fully in the
promise of what is provided by the protocol work that's here
and believe in, like, protocols, not labs, for
, like, the future of AI development.
So, that wraps up everything that I have about AppD
ata and what we're working on distributed AI forecast.
And also, we're higher end, so if you like
solving problems, let me know.
Thank you so much, Maxine.
Can we get a round of applause for Maxine?
Thank you so much.
I've got two mics on right now, one for the
stream, one for Maxine.
Maxine, can you hear me all right?
Yeah, perfectly.
Okay, fantastic.
We've got about five minutes for questions, and I'm
going to take the prerogative as the moderator to
first say, Maxine, you should check out what Nick
Gerakinis is working on right now, along with Bl
aine Cook, because Nick has actually just implemented lensing into
Lexicon Garden, so you can lens between literally any arbitrary
lexicon, so you guys can just skip right to
the next step if you'd like.
Blaine Cook also, they talked about this yesterday in an
unconference session around this, and Blaine and Aaron,
Stephen White have a much crazier arbitrary data lensing system
that they're also building, so I'll show you things
about that.
Oh, I'm so excited.
We talked about that last year.
That's so cool that that's happening.
Amazing.
Yeah, so it's very cool.
So, yes, any other questions that folks have?
Everybody's minds are blown.
Okay.
Yeah, come on over.
I'm interested to hear how you've progressed as far as
documentation for how the public could get involved with the things you
're working on.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, we have so many things.
We're a very early-stage startup.
We're sort of running around, and there's a fair
few of us to do a ton of tasks, so I
think that I'm very, very excited about the stuff that
has happened with Claude over the last few months as far
as providing ways to get documentation out there for things.
So, definitely right now, actually, I've been doing
a lot of build out on our AI tooling, which is
called Crosslink, which some people might have seen in the
community.
And so, that's been a little bit of the focus
there, but definitely I'm trying to move back over to
build out some of the documentation on how to get started with
at data.
And particularly for people who are using AI agents for doing coding
, one of the cool things that we've tried to do
in Crosslink is actually make it so there's a knowledge
repository per Git repository specifically for coding agents that it can pull
up repo to repo.
So, it's something to check out for that of our
Crosslink knowledge tool, but my hope is that I can
build out some of the knowledge that's specific to at data
in itself in its own separate orphan branch on Git, and
then that your agent can pull from that in order to know
how to do all the things basically.
But, no, it's a very good point that the
docs are extremely important.
Cool.
Any other questions?
Okay.
Well, then we'll just say thank you again, Max
ine.
Really appreciate you being here remotely with us.
Amazing.
Thank you so much for having me.
We have a fantastic conference.
Thank you.